hi welcome to part 5 of game theory in
Breaking Bad the background of the scene
is that jessie has tried to confront the
people that ripped off one of his
dealers in a series of events Jesse
bundles the operation and he's almost
he's held at gunpoint but he luckily
escapes when one of the drug addicts
takes out the other in a fit of rage
Jesse is an absolute wreck after this
he's witnessed the murder of someone he
feels that life isn't valuable and he's
tried to consult he consoles himself by
taking drugs he thinks the entire thing
is over and he doesn't want to do
anything more Walt comes in and he
explains why this situation actually
worked out to their advantage here's the
globe
the point of the scene is to demonstrate
the power of reputation and that the
concepts of breakage at blowfish are
complimentary when Jesse was being
stolen from when he had breakage the
problem is that one robbery can inspire
others and the rep the lesson there is
that if others think you are weak then
that itself is a weakness they will try
and test you you have to put more effort
to defending yourself on the flip side
is the advantage of being a Blowfish you
appear to be tougher than you are and no
one can really tell that so the lesson
here is that if others think you are
strong then that itself is a strength so
Jesse should not feel he should actually
feel very happy about what happened and
Wold explains that he's a Blowfish he
doesn't have to actually create this
reputation someone has done that for him
I want to thank you for watching this
five-part series on game theory and
Breaking Bad there are many many more
examples of game theory in the show I
just wanted to highlight five of the
examples to get you started and I also
want to make an interesting connection
in the show Walt is a chemistry teacher
and his job is to be familiar with the
actions and reactions between chemicals
but there is a corresponding point which
is that wall is also a game theorist
and shows that he can calculate the
actions reactions and counter reactions
between people thanks for watching this
series please subscribe to my channel
and you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions or on twitter at pressure
Walker